# Data Selection

When starting a new analysis, first import the data you would like to analyze. Either click on the **<i class="bi bi-box-arrow-in-down"></i> Import…** button, select **<i class="bi bi-box-arrow-in-down"></i> Import Data…** from the sidebar menu or use the keyboard shortcut <kbd><i class="bi bi-windows"></i> + I</kbd> <kbd>⌘ I</kbd> to bring up the import dialog.

After a successfull import, all data is selected. Using **<i class="bi-filter-square"></i> Filters**, a subset of data can be selected. The data subsets generated by the filter are listed as the data selection.

## Data Subsets

Each data subset in the list is indicated by a color, name and the count of entries within the subset. When hovering over a subset of the list, a menu appears that allows to adjust the appearance.

+ The first button <i class="bi bi-eye-fill"></i> toggles the visibility of the selected subset.
+ The second button of the group <i class="bi bi-gear-fill"></i> brings up a dialog that allows to change the color and name of the subset.
+ The last button <i class="bi bi-x-lg"></i> allows to delete the selected subset.

### Color

Colors are asigned automatically from a list of 10 colors, when a subset is created. If more than 10 subsets are created, the color asignment starts from the top again. This color is used in the analysis and automatically updated everywhere when changed.

To change the color, hover over the data subset and click on the <i class="bi bi-gear-fill"></i> button. In the dialog, click on the color next to the subset name and select the new color. Then click on save to update the color.

### Name

The name is automatically generated based on the selected filters. This name is used in the analysis and automatically updated everywhere when changed.

To change the name, hover over the data subset and click on the <i class="bi bi-gear-fill"></i> button. In the dialog, change the name and click on save to update the name.

### Data Count

The data count represents the number of entries in the data subset based on the filter settings. In case a **Threshold** is applied for a specific parameter, the count is updated accordingly.

In case entries are excluded, due to thresholding, the count is highlighted in red.
